When clients come to you, what is the
biggest gap they have that is keeping
them from being successful as leaders?
>> Most leaders, especially technical
leaders, assume they have to have all
the answers. People have climbed the
ladder because they've been dependable,
reliable, the smartest person in the
room. But great leaders know that when
you try to advise and have the answer
all the time, you're not actually
equipping your team to go solve the hard
problems. You're training your team to
come to you with all of the hard
problems.
>> Difficult conversations are difficult.
How do we help people make them less
difficult?
>> We operate in tech like we're supposed
to give all of ourselves, all of our
time, all of our energy to this endeavor
and it's purely logical. That's not at
all true. It's completely emotional.
Professionals have feelings. People when
they want to have a conflict, they come
in ready to prove their point. There's a
misguided view that the goal is to
convince the other person that what
they're doing is wrong. Actually, the
goal of any conflict is to create mutual
understanding. Talk about what you've
learned about helping leaders in tech
avoid burnout.
>> When people are in their gifts and their
strengths, they have more energy. We all
have more energy when we're operating
from the things we naturally are good
at. It's no one else's job to help you
live in your gifts. What I noticed in
big companies is people are often
annoyed or frustrated with their
management for not making their job more
interesting. No, your manager's job is
to help you perform in the job you were
hired to do. It's your job to navigate
your career. The power of this is this
makes your life so much better.
>> Honey, let's try it. So, I want you to
tell me a challenge, something that
you're struggling with.
>> The main thing I struggle with these
days is just
Today, my guest is Rachel Lockett, an
executive coach and former longtime HR
leader at Pinterest and at Stripe. She
works with CEOs and founders and leaders
at tech companies on both ways that they
are emotional and positive intelligence,
resilience, and courage, and what they
do. Setting vision and strategy,
prioritizing, and building trusted and
accountable teams. She's someone I've
heard a lot about over the years from
other podcast guests, and this
conversation is powerful. It's
jam-packed with advice and tips and
frameworks that'll make you a better
leader and also a better person. We even
do a couple live coaching sessions to
demonstrate some of Rachel's approaches.
And as you'll see, I had a number of
epiphies during this conversation. If
you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of a ton of incredible
products including dev and lovable
replet bolt in it and linear superhuman
descriptity
warp granola magic patterns raycast
mobin and stripe atlas. Head on over to
lenny'snewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that I bring you Rachel
Lockit after a short word from our
sponsors
1.3%.
It's a small number but in the right
context it's a powerful one. Stripe
processed just over $1.4 trillion last
year. That figure works out to be about
1.3% of global GDP. It's a lot, but it's
also just 1.3%.
Stripe handles the massive scale and
complexity of many of the world's
fastest growing enterprises, including
78% of the Forbes AI50 and more than
half of the Fortune 100. There's a
reason I've had more leaders from Stripe
on this podcast than any other company.
They know how to build great products
that scale and that people love. Stripe
is also a lot more than just payments.
They've also got a category leading
billing solution and a highly optimized
checkout experience built specifically
to increase your checkout conversion.
Enterprises like Atlassian, Figma, and
Urban use Stripe to create fully branded
and customized checkout pages with
access to more than 125 global payment
methods. Join the ranks of industry
leaders like Salesforce, OpenAI, and
Pepsi that are using Stripe to grow
faster and grow GDP. Learn how Stripe
can help your business grow at
stripe.com.
My podcast guests and I love talking
about craft and taste and agency and
product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? Sock 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first sock 2 or
ISO2701
or an enterprise managing vendor risk,
Vanta's trust management platform makes
it quicker, easier, and more scalable.
Vanta also helps you complete security
questionnaires up to five times faster
so that you can win bigger deals sooner.
The result, according to a recent IDC
study, Vanta customers slashed over
$500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Rachel, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you so much for having me, Lenny.
I am honored to be here. I'm honored to
have you here. Uh I was going to start
with a a different question, but we were
chatting ahead of this conversation. And
I I always like to ask guests, what do
you want people to get out of this
conversation? And I loved your answer.
So I I just want you to share this. So
let me just ask you, what are you hoping
people get out of the conversation we're
about to have?
>> Genuinely, I hope that your listeners
take away that the human side of
business building is incredibly fun and
impactful and that it it's easy to do.
they can do it with simple tools. So,
I'm hopeful that through this
conversation, heads of product, heads of
engineering, founders walk away feeling
more empowered and more motivated to
attune to the people around them.
>> So, what I'm hearing is just if you're
struggling with uh the human side of
building a product, building a team,
building a company, there are answers.
You can do it.
>> Yes. Exactly. It is achievable and it's
actually most natural.
>> Theaters want to care about the people
they work with. They want to empower
those around them. But sometimes the
busyiness of our world gets in the way
and the urgency of the litany of things
to do distracts you from the people in
front of you. And actually, if you
really understand the talent around you
and you create an environment where they
can be successful, your business will
thrive.
>> I think the hardest part of this for
people is just uh there's like the
knowing this can be helped with. The
other is just being vulnerable enough to
seek help and to take this on cuz it's
so hard. Just like, oh, maybe I'm not a
great manager. That's I don't that
doesn't feel good.
>> Yeah, that that's true. I mean, it's
vulnerable to seek help, but I think
your audience I know to be incredibly
committed to growth. I hear of people
who come on your podcast and they've
spent decades focused on
self-improvement.
And I actually want to tell you a story
about one of my clients who loves your
podcast and I was talking to him last
week. He's a client I've seen for 10
years and he's a person who exemplifies
a commitment to personal growth. I
started working with him when he was a
frontline engineering manager at
Coinbase
and we talked about who he is, what his
strengths are, and his bigger picture
why. and he talked about this dream of
creating a global movement one day. He
was really focused on building community
and he thought the path for creating
possibility in the world around him was
creating a strong community around him
and he continually worked on his
leadership capacity.
And over the 10 years, at some point, he
created a tattoo on his arm that's a sun
with a redwood grove around it that
reminded him of his core strengths and
his purpose.
>> And today, guess what he's doing, Lenny?
>> Killing it.
>> He's not only killing it, he's running a
community, a global community for
Coinbase called Bass and the Bass app.
>> Oh, wow.
>> It's the largest Ethereum L2 in the
world. and it's a community of creators
and developers and he's in having a
great time like he's having more fun
than ever and so I think for the people
who are committed to excellence and
impact recognizing that if they lean
into their gifts and they get back into
their purpose they can have more fun
while having an impact on the world.
This story reminds me of just why I love
these sorts of conversations because the
sort of stuff we're going to be talking
about, we'll get into it right after
this final preamble is stuff that's
usually locked away in these very small
rooms uh are only accessible to folks
with a bunch of money. You know, this is
stuff people pay tens of thousands of
dollars, hundreds of thousands of
dollars for over the course of their
career. And I just love the idea of
sharing all this with everyone to help
them all learn from the stuff that
you've learned from all these people
you've worked with. So, I'm really
excited to be digging into stuff. The
first thing I want to dive into, I
actually asked you when clients come to
you, what is the thing, what is the
biggest gap they have that is keeping
them from being successful as leaders?
And you told me it's essentially knowing
when to coach versus knowing when to
just tell people what to do and learning
to coach. Talk about what you see there,
why this is so important, and how you
help people develop the skill.
>> I think that most leaders, especially
technical leaders, assume they have to
have all the answers. People have
climbed the ladder in whatever realm
they're in because they've been
dependable, reliable, the smartest
person in the room.
But when you're leading a quickly
scaling company, you quickly have less
context than the people you're around.
And the way you were operating before
doesn't work because you don't have the
ability to wrap your arms around every
problem in a deep way.
So, I've seen leaders at every phase
from frontline managers up to running an
8,000 person company struggle with
knowing when do I have to have the
answer and when I don't have the answer,
what options do I have? But great
leaders know that when you try to advise
and have the answer all the time, you're
not actually equipping your team to go
solve the hard problems. You're training
your team to come to you with all of the
hard problems.
And coaching is a different way. It's an
alternative path that unlocks brilliance
in your team and is way more motivating
for the people around you. So coaching
is actually a learnable skill obviously
because there's tons of coaches around
Silicon Valley. But you don't have to
coach in the same way that an executive
coaches. You can shift your energy into
curiosity when someone brings you a hard
problem to solve and create space to get
curious and help them solve their own
problem. So obviously sometimes advising
is the right path. If there's an urgent
issue, the person coming to you doesn't
have the skill they need, that's a time
to advise and help.
But leaders overrotate assuming the
people that they've hired who are
experts in their domain need them to
solve the problem.
So I think it's useful for your
listeners to actually know that
coaching's an alternative and I can help
them learn some basic skills around
this.
>> Okay, I'd love to learn those skills.
What this makes me think about is
there's this famous Harvard Business
Review piece, I don't know, it's like 30
years ago maybe about the monkey on the
back. you know this piece where
so okay we'll link to it. It's this idea
that as a leader people are always just
coming to you trying to give you their
monkey that's sitting on their back and
they're like hey this monkeyy's causing
me problem I don't know what to do but
this monkey here you go you take it and
feed it and help it figure out what it
needs and the role of a leader is to
keep the monkey on the back of the
person and help them figure out how to
solve this problem exactly what you're
describing.
>> Yeah, that's a great analogy. I love
that. I think leaders make things up
when they don't have answers. Sometimes
>> a a person comes to you with a problem
and you just want to help. But the best
way to help is actually doing something
that most leaders don't do well. It's
attuning to what is the context? What
does this person need? What are they
blocked on? And ask them those questions
so that they can solve their own
problem.
>> So, we're going to let's talk about how
to get better at this. But first of all,
when you said uh when is it actually
smart to just tell them what to do? You
said it's when they don't have the
skills to do it. Is there any other kind
of heristics of like, okay, just tell
them what to do in these cases?
>> Yeah. It's an urgent issue and you
actually have an answer that you want to
drive. So don't coach and make it a
game. Like you want your person on your
team to guess what's in your mind.
That's a not a good time to coach. You
you have something you absolutely want
them to do. you know the right answer,
you want them to be motivated to go do
it. Advise them, help them see the path.
But most leaders overindex on that that
solution. So I want to
>> share maybe Lenny I can teach you two
skills that I think are the basics of
leader coaching that you can use in your
own life tonight with your wife.
>> She's gonna love this concrete with
>> and hopefully your listeners can use
them too.
>> Let's do it. Okay. So, the first skill
is active listening. And Lenny, you're
probably a good listener because this is
what you do for a living is you listen
to the people who come on your podcast.
But I don't know if you've seen Fight
Club. There's a quote, "Most people
aren't listening. They're just waiting
for their turn to talk.
>> This is rampant in tech." And great
leaders flip that script and tune in.
They're the kinds of leaders who walk
into a room and they can see the
elephants. they can name them. They can
ask the hard questions to get people
collaborating.
So there's actually three levels to
listening. So the first level of
listening, level one, is internal. Let's
say you're talking to me about a
problem. I'm thinking about the
implications of that problem on me. I'm
completely distracted with my own inner
dialogue. That's level one. Most people
go through their world rushed and in
level one.
Level two listening is focused. So,
you're talking to me and I can repeat
back what you're saying. So, I am
listening to the words you're describing
and that's typically what happens in a
good one-on-one. We're problem solving
together. I'm focused on your words.
Level three listening listening is
global listening. So, that's when I'm
hearing beneath the words. I'm hearing
what you're communicating, not just what
you're saying. I see your body language.
I notice your tone of voice. I know the
context around what you're talking about
and I can reflect back more insight
about what's happening than you're aware
of because I'm understanding everything
you're communicating.
So dropping into level three listening
is what great leaders do when they're
influencing, when they're selling, when
they're pitching a vision, and
definitely when they're coaching.
So do you want to try it?
>> Let's do it.
>> Okay. How about this? I'll demonstrate
some level three listening. I'm going to
ask you a question.
>> Okay. Uh
>> oh.
>> You told me earlier you're a father.
>> Yeah.
>> What is it like to be a dad?
>> Wow. What is it like to be a dad? Uh
it's uh amazing. It's like the most
amazing thing I've ever done. Uh in many
ways I love it so much. It's also quite
challenging at times dealing with
setting boundaries and knowing when to
just let him do the thing he's really
excited about or just saying no and just
letting him cry for a while. That's
something I've been dealing with
recently. But it's it's like everything
people tell you it is. And so in
basically in every way except uh the joy
is so much higher so much higher than
you hear from other people because
people always talk about all the all the
downsides, all the pain and challenges.
>> Yeah. Uh, and I see you when you talk
about being a father. Initially, I saw
you really squirm in your chair. Whoa,
this is a big question. And you know,
you looked up and down and kind of
avoided my eye contact at first because
my sense is you love being a dad. And
it's so challenging. It's so tiring. And
I'm hearing both of that in your answer.
like the high joy and the discomfort in
having to sleep train and having to
disappoint and navigating challenging
behavior.
>> Uh nailed it. That was very nice to
hear. Uh clearly you listen to
everything I said and that was a really
good example of active listening.
>> What What does it feel like to be seen
that way?
>> It feels really nice. It feels really
nice to be to be heard and and it's not
just like you're repeating back my
words. It's here's what I got out of
like kind of the level below what you're
saying and the the gist and the bigger
picture.
>> Yeah. There's some emotional connection
when you listen actively.
>> And that took, you know, less than a
minute.
>> So, what I want to invite listeners to
understand is that active listening
doesn't mean you're setting up an hour
coaching session with every person on
your team. No one has time for that. But
even in the time you're already
spending, just focusing on the other
person in a way that is novel and really
gives them their your full attention so
you can see their feelings under what
they're saying goes a long way to
motivating your team and helping them
understand what's actually happening
under the surface in this situation.
>> And there's I think there's just so much
power in just in different words
repeating back what they said that's
almost implied in what you're
describing. like it sounds like so I
don't know like a trick they'll see
through but knowing that you're
listening to me and you're gonna show me
active listening it still feels really
nice to just hear back what I said
there's a lot of power in that and it's
great yeah there's there's an element of
synthesizing what I'm hearing verbally
that's the focus listening part and then
mirroring back the emotions that I'm
noticing
>> the emotions
>> and even things that I'm guessing and I
can say is that right and you can say no
actually I'm not conflicted about the
challenges of being a
I just am so joyful and then now I
understand where you're coming from and
so do you.
>> Awesome. Okay. So, this is a core skill
of coaching is active listening.
>> Yes. So, that's listening.
>> Second skill, powerful questions.
>> So, asking powerful questions means I'm
curious about what's really going on and
there's not one right answer. So, a
powerful question helps you gain insight
and it takes you to a new solution set
you didn't have before, but it's not me
leading the witness. I'm not trying to
guide you to a specific answer. That
wouldn't be a powerful question.
So, something that I like to in equip
leaders with is four kinds of questions
that you can ask to unlock insight. So
the first kind is um I use a grow model.
So the grow model just is four different
categories of kinds of powerful
questions. So the G in grow is goal. So
what does success look like? What's the
outcome that you want to have? Any
question that's around defining the best
case scenario.
The R in the grow model is about your
current reality. Where are you stuck?
What are your current challenges? What
have you tried? The O is about your
options.
So let's expand the opportunities that
you can understand of the choices you
have in front of you. What are the
various paths you could take? And the W
in the grow model is the way forward.
What are you going to do next? So this
sounds simple
and it is simple. If you take the time
and space to listen carefully and ask
any of these questions, the people on
your team will appreciate the space and
time to unlock an option that they
didn't think of before and walk away
with a concrete next step.
>> Okay. So, just to reflect back what
you're saying. So, this is someone comes
to you with a monkey on their back.
Here's a problem I'm trying to solve.
Uh, this problem this person on my team
is having is just like not doing
something right or this feature isn't
working. something like that you're So
first of all it's listen be very uh be
very active in your listening reflect
back what you're hearing their emotions
>> and then ask them questions around what
does success look like for this what is
the goal what is the goal what does
success look like for the thing you're
trying to do here what does success look
like two is just what's today's reality
what's happening today
>> then options here's options that you
think exist so this is you asking them
what are the options
>> yeah what are your paths forward what
could you do next
>> what could you do next and And then you
like I you know this is is organic so
it's not just like 1 2 3 4 I imagine but
the next the final step is just okay
what's the way forward what do you what
do you want to do
>> that's exactly right and you don't have
to do it in this order these are just
four kinds of questions so you might
come and someone's super clear about
their outcome you know that you don't
need to spend any time asking them
questions about that maybe you just want
to really dig in on where are they stuck
and once they start talking about their
reality and where they're stuck then
they realize oh I'm stuck because my
crossf functional partner is blocking me
and I don't have any relationship with
them. I need to go meet with them
actually and just have a breakthrough
conversation. Tell them where I'm stuck.
So sometimes talking this out loud, just
creating that space for them is going to
help them tremendously.
>> And there's kind of an implication here
that the person often knows the answer
or can come to the answer and they just
need a little bit of nudge to get there.
Yeah, this is definitely you want to
coach when you think the person you're
talking to has the right context and can
solve their own problem. That's a
premise of coaching. You wouldn't coach
if someone needs your guidance and comes
to you and says, "Hey, I'm trying to
take my company public. You took your
company public. Can you tell me exactly
the steps you took to get there? Not a
good time to coach."
>> There's kind of like this begs the
question, what if they just come to a
terrible conclusion and you're just like
uh advice on when to actually just like
what about this instead?
>> Yeah. Okay. I think that's great. So, if
you have a really strong negative uh
reaction to what they were sharing, of
course, it's not it doesn't behoove
anyone to hide that. I think you get
curious. Hey, help me understand how you
came to that conclusion because here's
my reaction to that. So, you're honest,
but you're also curious. So coaching in
a manager or leader context is not the
same as in an executive coaching
conversation. You're managing this
person. You're responsible for their
outcomes. You're not setting up an
hourong coaching session. You're just
using coaching as an additional tool in
your toolkit from advising. And you're
creating more space, maybe 15% more
space in your one-on- ones, in your
meetings for open-ended questions.
>> I love this phrase, help me understand.
One of my managers used to be really
good at this. just like you could tell
he's like, "Help me understand uh this
part of your your thinking."
>> Yeah. And the other thing that does when
you're curious and you don't just shut
down someone's idea is you're helping
them think. You're not helping them
realize they're going to screw it up
unless they come to you for advice.
You're helping equip them with the right
questions to ask and the right
skepticism to have. And so it's always
useful to be in conversation when
someone who reports to you has a
different worldview than you do. There's
some reason they came up with this great
idea that you think is a terrible idea.
And actually that's where the learning
happens.
>> And you may actually be wrong and you
may realize, okay, they actually have
the better solution. I get it now.
>> Yeah. This actually happens to me all
the time in talent conversations cuz I
have a background in being an HR
business partner and I'm working with
CEOs and they're thinking about building
their leadership team and I want
everyone to have a very rigorous stance
on their talent because if you have an
A+ squad, you're going to do great
things in the world. And sometimes they
come up with an idea to performance
manage someone who's clearly not working
in the role but think, "Oh, maybe I'll
wait six months and then we'll have a
conversation." I have a strong point of
view. I'm not going to let that slide,
but I'm going to say, help me understand
why that is a good idea. And I'm going
to press on that. And if they don't come
to an idea that I'm aligned with, I'm
going to share openly my perspective
while still empowering them to solve
their own problem.
>> To close the loop on this piece of
advice, is there an example you could
share to make this super concrete for
folks? Well, I'm going to give you an
example of a client, I'm going to call
him Jeff, who runs an AI company and he
was essentially playing the role of the
head of product also. And he had a
growing number of engineers and
designers and his customer base was
growing rapidly
and he started to feel completely
overwhelmed. So he came to me and we
started coaching together
and soon he realized that he was the
blocker on every decision, every
business decision, every product
decision and he was resenting it. He
wanted his team to take more ownership.
But with some coaching, he realized he
was training his team to come to him
with every decision because he had
always operated that way.
So we decided to create squads and have
small pods of engineers, product leaders
and designers focus on subsets of the
team. Very normal as you have a small
startup scaling,
but he didn't have an engineering
manager and a product leader for every
one of them. So this was a little bit
earlier than he was equipped for because
he did it out of necessity. And he also
realized he needed to create some
behavior change for the way he was
interacting with that like tech lead on
each project so that they would take
more ownership. So he really invested in
this idea of I'm going to start to set
the system up. So we have a product
review every two weeks. They each have
clear KPIs they're driving to that we
co-design. And for this next quarter,
I'm shifting from the role of deciding
on everything to coaching. I'm going to
really ask good questions in our
check-ins. I'm going to align to the
KPIs, ask how things are going, ask
where they're stuck.
And I just had a session with him last
week. It's amazing to see him because
he's so much more energized. He said the
squads are moving so much faster.
The teams feel more empowered and
motivated.
and he has time to pick his head up and
plan for 2026 and spend his time in his
gifts which are product vision and
strategy. So that's more of a global
example of what it what results from you
from leaders shifting from the mode of
solving every problem to coaching.
>> That's such a a great example of just
the power of this is this makes your
life so much better because other people
can start picking up the slack and not
come to you for everything. And it's
like listen better, ask a few powerful
questions, and so much improves, so much
changes, everyone around you gets
better.
>> Honey, let's try it. So, I want you to
tell me
>> a
um a challenge. It could be a personal
challenge, a professional challenge,
just bottom line, something that you're
struggling with.
>> Whoa.
The main thing I struggle with these
days is just uh endless work. I feel
like this newsletter. I started this
newsletter six, seven years ago at this
point. And originally it was like I'm
just gonna build this chill newsletter,
do this on the side, just kind of chill
out for a while. And now it's just like
it just grows. I couldn't help but make
it more awesome and and bigger and have
this podcast now and other stuff I got
going on. So it's always this. So I'm in
a world now where it's just this. The
way I think about it is the Indiana
Jones boulder is constantly in my back
rearview mirror just coming at me
because I need to get a newsletter post
out, get podcast episodes out, do all
the things associated with that. I'm
also just in the middle of like I have
this large Slack community at Twitter
and LinkedIn. So, I'm just constantly
being barged with like small little asks
and things and all these little things
that never it's hard to just ignore and
say no to. So, so what I struggle with
is just uh endless work. I joke that uh
be careful working for yourself if your
boss is a workaholic.
>> That's the
>> I totally relate to that. Okay. So, I'm
hearing um noise barrage of of needs and
just constant requests of you online in
your work life. There's always something
that you need to be doing and you've
designed it that way yourself. So you're
kind of aware of I had this one
intention of
>> a path to freedom insight. I imagine the
newsletter was like a fun passion
project
>> and you couldn't help but make it this
allconsuming full-time job.
>> That's right. Let me just add it's like
in so many ways the most awesome thing I
could ever imagine doing also and
extremely fulfilling and I couldn't
think of anything better I'd rather be
doing.
>> So I think that's an important element.
It's this Indiana Jones Boulder
constantly chasing me.
>> Yeah, I can feel the gratitude and the
resonance with what you get to do every
day. And yet, I hear you questioning,
why does it have to feel like I'm
fighting for my life while I'm doing
this thing I love?
>> That's one way to put it. Yeah.
>> I mean, boulder squish Indiana Jones
boulder is coming for you. Oh, man.
>> That's a fight orflight instinct. We all
have.
>> That's true. That's true. Okay. So,
thank you for being vulnerable enough to
share that with your listeners and with
me. I want to ask you,
what would
dream state look like? So, let's say in
6 months you're still running this
beautiful business that you've created
and you feel differently.
What is happening?
What I imagine is the same thing mostly,
just much more free time.
So, more time to experiment and play
with other things. And at the same time,
the newsletter continues to be awesome
and high quality. The podcast continues
to be awesome and high quality. So, it's
continuing to put out the same high
quality stuff, just more free time, less
uh the boulders may be smaller.
>> Yeah. Okay. So what does free time
enable for you when you think about I I
hear your commit deep commitment to
quality products?
>> Yeah.
>> And quality output, but this longing to
feel a little bit more playful or
flexible with those parts that are
essential to you
>> very practically. It's time to play
around with, you know, AI tools, just
like explore and just kind of tinker
versus like, okay, all the time I have,
I need to focus on the newsletter, make
it better for next week. Oh, it's coming
out. Here's things I got to do. Oh, this
podcast, got to prep for that. Got to
edit this thing.
>> So, it's just time to tinker and explore
and and just like
>> Yeah, that kind of that kind of stuff.
>> That makes sense. And what's important
about exploring and tinkering to you
>> because in the work I do, I need to stay
ahead on where things are going. I can't
just, you know, sit around and
pontificate from a cloud. I need to
really understand how things work,
what's what's working, what's not,
what's real, what's not.
>> So, being on the ground as much as I can
with what's actually going on versus
just, you know, putting out content.
>> That makes sense. Your voice is moving
really fast. You're I I kind of hear you
feeling behind even in the way you're
describing what you're doing.
>> A good act of listening. What's
interesting to me is when you're talking
about exploring and tinkering, when you
first said it, you said it in kind of a
spacious way. Like it's fun to explore
and tinker. You're deeply naturally
curious.
>> You find new insights.
>> But then I also heard you say and it's a
way to stay ahead. I have to do it in
order to feel like I'm informed.
>> So what do you make of that
>> difference?
>> Yeah. Uh yeah, those are two two sides
of the coin. Like there's like another
element of I guess let me answer that
question. I think I think those are both
true. I don't know. Uh because it's
actually like the reason I got into this
is because it was so fun and so
interesting just like here's what's
happening. Here's what the future
>> here's advice. Here's ways to improve in
the work that you do. So there's still
like I still love it.
>> It's just I have less time to do that
part and more it's just like the machine
of the treadmill of content content
content. Yeah,
>> there's also just like spending more
like I didn't even mention this, but
just spending more time with my son and
my wife, you know, that would be really
great just to have more freedom to go go
do stuff, which we have a lot of that
>> but more sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, the the goal that I hear is
not so dramatically different from
today. It's that you hold on to this
high quality output, but you have space
for exploring and tinkering and for
spending quality time with the people
you love most.
>> Yes. The one way I'm thinking about as
you reflect that back is like 25% more
free time while everything else
continues to be awesome. And the
challenge I run into is I sometimes get
that extra time and then I fill it with
more projects and opportunities. That's
>> like inertia of moving fast, taking
advantage of the moment that's coming.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So that's a perfect shift into um what
are your current ways of operating that
get in the way of having that 25% of
free time? It's just like agreeing to
more things. Just like, oh, look, I'm
kind of free right now. Oh, okay. Let's
do this uh let's do this talk here.
>> Let's agree to this thing here. It's so
it's just once I feel freedom, I like
okay, I could do that other thing. And
so I commit to more stuff.
>> Yeah. And how is that commitment to
saying yes to things that come at you
serving you?
>> Not great.
>> Well, it's serving you in some ways.
Like what b you're doing it for a
reason. What is it? What benefit does it
have to you?
>> Well, it depends on the thing, you know,
like I actually have a rule of never
doing a talk or going on other podcast
or going to events really because I find
I never really get much out of it and it
distracts me from the stuff I could be
doing. So, I've set up a a lot of
policies of just turning down things
that uh don't serve me, but uh I still
crumble and say yes to stuff.
>> Yeah, that's smart.
>> So, that's your point. There's, you
know, there's value here and there when
I take on more work, but and then I end
up overwork again.
>> Yeah. I'm hearing there's just a
pattern. It's like a reflexive pattern
of even though you set a rule for
yourself to say no to certain things and
you seem proud of that boundary, you
naturally break it or you fall into
filling it with other things.
>> That's right. Exactly.
>> Okay. So, you're stuck in this kind of
addiction to doing more and signing up
for more, which is so normal in our
world and probably most listeners can
relate to that. M
>> that's kind of the soup we swim in. So
we have to be conscious of where what
inputs we have around us.
>> Mhm.
>> So let's explore your various options
that you have in front of you. One that
you mentioned already you tried was to
commit like make a list of the things
you don't want to be doing anymore like
things you want to say no to and really
committing to that and sticking to that.
Mhm.
>> What are the other kinds of things you
could do to help you prioritize and
create that sacred 25% of extra time for
yourself?
>> Something I've already done which hasn't
kicked in fully yet, but that I'm really
excited about is I reduced the cadence
of my newsletter and podcast,
>> which in theory should be a massive
change, but the podcast hasn't the
cadence of the podcast hasn't shifted
down yet. It'll happen next year. the
newsletter cadences. I basically changed
my promise to readers. Instead of you
will receive a newsletter every week,
now it's two to four times a month
depending on what's going on. Wow.
>> Which uh felt huge. The problem is I
still like every week I'm like, "Oh, and
I can write about this thing. Oh, every
week there's oh there's nothing's
happening. I got to put this out." So
I'm almost not taking advantage of that
opportunity. Uh so something I could do
is actually not publish every week.
Another is just bring on some more help,
which is difficult because I've got a
lot of good help. And there's only so
many things other people can do for me
that isn't writing an awesome newsletter
and recording conversations like this.
>> Yeah.
>> But I'm always thinking about and I
should think deeper about where can
people take more load off my plate.
>> Yeah, I love that insight. If you um
what I'm hearing is do less in certain
areas
and think about your team and really
expanding the capacity of your team and
be rigorous about the things you can
hand off. You may have limiting beliefs
around the things you need to do versus
the people on your team.
>> I might I might. And then your point I
loved which was just um say uh improve
my policies of what I say no to that
don't serve me.
>> Yeah. What are the things you could be
saying yes to if you said no to more
things? just playing around with stuff,
just space to explore and tinker and
just sit around and and think versus
just go go go.
>> Yeah. And I hear I just see you feel so
light and excited in that. Like you
almost are giddy when you think about
that spaciousness.
>> That'd be so nice.
>> And I just want to name reflect back to
you how special that is and how much
more creative you could be in your work
when you have that space and time
>> and your buckets full with care. I feel
that. I feel that.
>> Yeah. So, what's one thing you could do
in the next two weeks that would help
you get closer to the kind of
spaciousness you want to create?
>> I love that we're I like as we go
through this, I'm like thinking about
this grow framework and I love how
you're executing like I see it in
action.
>> Yeah. I'm trying to do very simple
coaching right now just
yet. It's really easy to follow for your
listeners.
>> Yeah. Yeah. This is great. Uh okay.
Okay. So, what's the one thing I could
do in the next couple weeks to help me
move forward on this?
I think one is at least skip a week or
two of the newsletter and just actually
stick to that plan. So, but it's tough
because the next two weeks I got already
planned. I got to write I got to write a
gift guide. That's my Okay, so the week
after I'll take a break. Okay, cool. So,
two weeks from the recording this I
won't publish a newsletter and then I'm
going to revisit my policies on what I
say yes and no to.
>> I love that. Think about everything
you're saying yes to and what are things
you want to say yes to that you could
trade it with. So really consider that
um it's a trade-off every time you say
yes to something.
>> The more resonant you are with the end
state and what's possible for you, the
easier it is to be disciplined in the
near term.
>> I love just that element of here's what
you will get out of this. It's not just
no no. It's like yes to this other thing
you really really want to do.
>> Exactly. Yeah. say like a resonant
full-bodied yes to the things that are
in a lot. Yeah. Hell yes with an
exclamation. Exactly.
>> Okay. Well, thank you, Lenny, for um
letting me just demonstrate what
powerful questions are. And the reason I
wanted to do that with you is, you know,
you brought an example that's actually
pretty big. It's an emotional thing.
It's a cultural norm. It's a way of
being that we've all learned to to be
through growing up in and operating in
tech especially.
So even with that kind of topic, using a
simple grow model can be useful.
But people are coming at your listeners
with topics that are very complicated,
technical,
urgent, but the same kinds of questions
unlock new opportunity when it's about
how to build technical infrastructure or
how to uh you know influence the
executive team or how to ship the go to
market strategy. So I just want a name
that's very transferable.
>> Uh I love that I got great advice in
this conversation already. How what a
great ROI for me at least.
>> What did it feel like to be coached on
your own podcast?
>> It was it was it was uh unusual. I'm
just like, wait, I got to get back to
asking you questions. That's where we
can flip. We can flip it. I I do want to
name that. Um typically when you're
coached versus told what to do, you're
more bought in. So if I told you, you
know, Lenny, I've heard all kinds of
leaders come to me talking about being
too busy. Here's what you should do.
Write a list of all the things you're
doing. Write the things you're going to
delegate. You know, cut out 25% of the
things on your calendar. I could have
given you a laundry list of things that
I thought you should do without much
context, but you're the expert on your
own context and actually what resonates
and you're much more likely to do it if
you came up with it.
>> I I was going to mention that earlier.
That is so incredibly true. Like no one
wants to like unless you ask for advice.
Very few people are like, "Please tell
me what to do. just tell me. I really
love you. Just unsolicited advice like
that doesn't go well.
>> Yeah. And great leaders often say, "Do
you want advice or do you want some
space to think about it?" Like, "Can I,
you know, can I help you think it
through or would you like me to tell you
what I would do?" And both are fine in
certain situations. So asking is useful,
too.
>> Yeah. Okay. That was a that's such an
important element of this that we should
have mentioned, and that's I'm glad you
did.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, I'm going to go back to asking
you questions,
>> right?
This is a good segue to something I
wanted to spend a little time on, which
is burnout.
>> Yeah,
>> we, you know, what I'm talking about is
stuff that often leads to burnout. I'm
definitely not burnt out, but you know,
this is a common problem in tech where
people feel depleted and just go too
hard and then they So many people I've
worked with just left tech. I had a
colleague at Airbnb. He went he's like a
park ranger now near woods and that's
how faraceful tech
>> so peaceful and so wonderful. But I
think that's just people go so hard
sometimes and then just get burnt out
and never want to do anything like this
again.
>> I know that you spent a lot of time on
this with founders and you have a really
uh helpful approach.
>> So just talk about what you've learned
about helping
>> leaders in tech avoid burnout and feel
energized and excited about their work
for a long time.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, I'm glad you
brought it up. It's a huge problem. I
remember when I was coaching top talent
at Stripe. Patrick Coulson is really
committed to retaining top talent. And I
created a program with my team for the
top 50 executives in the tech side of
the house. And we looked at their
engagement scores. We did coaching
circles. And it was so sad to see how
exhausted that group of incredibly
creative and committed leaders was in
that moment.
And it's so common that people who start
with incredible inspiration and
incredible capacity start to feel like
they've been pushing and pushing and
pushing for years. They're parenting,
they're leading, crazy things are
happening to the business and they just
can't muster the same kind of motivation
they once had.
And I see this with my clients all the
time. So, I've also witnessed
people who are still inspired and
continually energetic and seem to have
some secret well of, you know, some
diesel battery or I guess I should say a
Tesla battery that helps them through
really hard challenges and they're still
having a good time. And so my what I
make of that is that when people are in
their gifts and their strengths firmly
most of the time they have more energy.
We all have more energy when we're
operating from the things we naturally
are good at and the things we innately
love doing. So I try to help my leaders
see that they can they can design their
lives so they're spending 80% of their
time in their gifts. That seems really
ambitious because you're stuck within a
context that requires a lot of you,
especially when you're a executive at a
huge company.
But I also interact with founders who
started a company with great
inspiration, an entrepreneurial vision,
and their job has obviously changed
every six months once you fund raise,
once you grow a team. Um, and sometimes
especially technical founders will start
solving a technical problem they're
absolutely obsessed with. They spend
three years doing it. The product ships
and then they're stuck managing a board
and a team and they don't even realize
they're doing a completely different job
than the one that played to their
strengths.
So, one tool I like to give is for
people to actually take two weeks and
every night reflect on what's the five
what are the five things today that gave
me the most energy and what are the five
things that depleted my energy the most.
If you do that for two weeks and you
look at patterns, you can tell what are
the natural gifts that I'm living in and
what are the things that I'm stuck doing
that are exhausting and they're just
slowly it's like a slow leak in your gas
tank that over time shows up in your
daily amount of energy.
>> I so believe this advice is so
effective. This is the way I actually
approached when I left my job. I very
actively did this. I paid attention
every day what gave me energy and what
sapped my energy and let me just do more
of the thing that gave me energy and
more less of the thing that saps me. I
want to talk about just like you know
there's only so much you can change but
I want to talk about that.
>> Yeah.
>> And that and so initially I was like
maybe I'll become an adviser and
consultant kind of person. I actually
found that was super depleting for me
>> doing these calls and talking to people
because it's like surface level, you
know, here are some things I would do
>> and it was just so unexciting and
energizing. But writing was really
energizing which I never expected
>> and
>> I love that
>> and that's what I did and I just
followed that pole.
>> So,
>> and it sounds like maybe you need a
refresh, honey.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> You know, there's always more attuning
you can do to your gifts. like you're in
this amazing, you've clearly been
successful for a reason. You're in your
strengths and you're paying attention to
what brings you energy. We can always do
that more throughout our life. I think
it's a process of continually kind of
tuning in to where your spark is and
protecting that spark, feeding it.
>> I love that insight. That just blew my
mind. So, very tactically, the way you
would do this is for two weeks every
night is the idea. look at reflect back
on that day and write down five things
that gave you energy, five things that
sap you have of energy.
>> Yeah, there's so many different
activities you could use. So that's one.
Um I like a activity of actually asking
five to 10 people in your life with a
very simple email when I walk in the
room, what shows up? What are my
strengths? What are the gifts? If you
really don't know them and you haven't
spent a lot of time in this realm,
that's also an opportunity of actually
asking the people who know you best what
your core gifts are and when when do you
have the most inspiration?
You can also look through your calendar
and note themes. Okay, over the last
month, what are all the things I look at
on my calendar that I'm excited to do?
What are the things I dread? Okay, why
do I dread those things? What do those
things have in common? So there's
various ways you can get to kind of what
is your zone of genius. But what my
invitation is to take that really
seriously. It actually takes risk
takingaking. It takes intention to
design your life around your gifts.
>> Is there any advice for actually doing
this? Say someone's just like, "Yeah,
I've got to do this." But you know, most
people don't actually do this. Is there
like a buddy you can nominate just help
me do this? Is it like if you have an EA
that can maybe help you with this? Is
there anything you've seen?
>> Good question. Yeah, I love your ideas.
I think that the people around you need
to be on board and know what are your
gifts. So, for example, when I was an HR
business partner, my boss bought into
this and I explained to her, hey, I
started at Stripe because I actually
know I'm going to be a coach. I'm not
going to be a head of HR, but I love
working with leaders. So, I'm going to,
you know, do all the compensation
strategy and all the org design and I'm
going to help product and engineering
leaders, but what I have in the back of
my mind is I'm honing my coaching
skills. And so when this opportunity to
work on top talent um retention came
about, it was much very aligned in in
the realm of coaching and L & D
background that I had. So she put me on
that. So it's useful to name it to the
people around you. What are your gifts?
What are your interests? Um what skills
are you really excited to hone so that
they are uh in a contract with you to
help you and really apply your gifts to
the business's needs. So that's one
thing. when you're a founder, a CEO,
when when you have the autonomy to
consider what are the role scopes around
me, then you can really hire around it.
So, I have some CEOs that I work with
who are incredible visionaries, great
strategists, really good at, you know,
managing the board, hiring, etc.
Terrible at managing their team. They
hate it. So, they hire a COO and they
work in partnership. They have one
person who's really internally focused.
They get to be externally focused. That
works well. It's a symbiotic
relationship. If you're honest about
your strengths and your weaknesses, then
you can start to manage around them.
>> This episode is brought to you by
Persona, the verified identity platform
helping organizations onboard users,
fight fraud, and build trust. We talk a
lot on this podcast about the amazing
advances in AI. But this can be a
double-edged sword. For every wow
moment, there are fraudsters using the
same tech to wreak havoc, laundering
money, taking over employee identities,
and impersonating businesses. Persona
helps combat these threats with
automated user, business, and employee
verification. Whether you're looking to
catch candidate fraud, meet age
restrictions, or keep your platform
safe, Persona helps you verify users in
a way that's tailored to your specific
needs. Best of all, Persona makes it
easy to know who you're dealing with
without adding friction for good users.
This is why leading platforms like Etsy,
LinkedIn, Square, and Lyft trust Persona
to secure their platform. Persona is
also offering my listeners 500 free
services per month for one full year.
Just head to withpersona.com/lenny
to get started. That's
withpersona.com/lenny.
Thanks again to Persona for sponsoring
this episode. It's really nice to know
what you want to do and understand where
your dream life looks like. You also
have a job, you have manager, you got
things to do, you got responsibilities.
So I guess first of all is you have seen
people that are not founders actually
make a change to do the things to spend
more time in their gifts to actually not
just be like like there is uh you have
agency to move in a direction you that
will make you happier is kind of an
implied piece of this.
>> Yeah. I think sometimes people hire a
chief of staff to help them and
complement them. Um sometimes people
design their team with strengths and
gifts that they don't have. So it's
really there you can get creative once
you really understand, oh these things
give me a ton of energy and these things
are exhausting, but I still need to fill
this need for the business. What are all
the ways I can do it?
>> And telling your manager, I think, is a
is such a simple and important part of
this. Telling them, here's where I want
to go. Here's the things I want to get
better at. Here's the things that give
me energy. Can we just try to make as
much of my role that
>> yeah especially if you're executing well
people want to retain you they want to
know what's going to keep you here for
the next five years and typically they
think that move that means moving up the
ladder but maybe it doesn't for you I
think it does take the courage to move
move horizontally sometimes to get into
your strengths
>> and that I mean I've moved horizontally
a number of times and I love what I do.
I feel like I'm in my natural gifts, but
it took me a few risks and and some
uncomfortable jobs that didn't feel like
they were worthy of my experience in
order to get there.
>> What's like a good percentage of your
work life that should be in gifts and
things that energize you versus okay, I
actually got
>> So, my fitness test is 80%. That's the
goal. That's the aspiration. You're
always going to have 20% of things you
don't love doing. There's just the
logistics of getting into the zone that
you need to be in. But I really try to
push people to think aspirationally that
if you're 80% of the time in your gifts,
how much energy you have to give to the
world, it's so much more inspiring. So I
want to tell you why I'm passionate
about this topic because it actually is
how I ended up as an executive coach.
So uh 10 years ago I was working at a
small company called Remind and I was
running the UX research team and the CEO
asked me to move in to the product
manager role for the core product team
and I was excited for the opportunity. I
had non-technical background but I
thought hey all these strategists are up
there creating the road map. I can do
that. I know exactly what our users
need. So I was excited for this. I you
know came into the team there was I
think 12 senior engineers very
opinionated
um very skeptical of this non-technical
PM but we worked together and what I did
was I listened I learned what do our
users need what does this team need
what's working and not working and
within a month this team was working
well together they were you know
reviewing each other's code base they
were really disagreeing in a healthy way
in our team meetings they felt more
connected to users
And I felt like, okay, this rhythm is
working. But what I was also doing is I
was at home stressing in the middle of
the night about the new user experience.
I couldn't decide which of the designs
to go with. I was always overleveraging
our data scientists and I found myself
swirling on decisions that didn't need
to have so much stress involved. And one
day I went for a walk with my colleague
Zach Abrams and he was a great product
manager and he was listening to me ask
all these questions about how to sell
the vision of what this uh what this
product would look like in the future.
And he said, ' Rachel,
your zone of genius or your gift is not
being a product strategist,
but I've watched you over the last few
months and you have gotten the team more
motivated than I ever could and you've
influenced the entire executive team
behind your ideas and that's impressive.
You're a people person.
And at first I was offended. What? You
think I don't have the ability to be a
great product leader? And yet I I sat
with what he said and I knew he was
right. Both my parents are therapists. I
never wanted to be a therapist. Here I
am. I'm basically a work therapist. I
love entrepreneurial energy. I love big
vision, but I'm a h I'm a people person.
And I left that and I realized I love
what my coach does. I got trained as a
coach. I went into HR leadership. And
Zach, who was a gifted product
strategist, went on to lead product at
Coinbase and Brex and most recently
Bridge, which was acquired by Stripe.
And he's still my client. And we've
watched our journeys over the last
decade. And we've both been honing our
gifts. And it's life is more fun when
you're in your gifts. And you have more
inspiration and capacity to offer the
world. So, I just want to share that
story because
it's helpful to be honest with the
people you care about when they seem
energized and when they seem depleted
cuz sometimes it's a wakeup call for
people to
really
think about what is their spark and to
protect it and to feed it. I love that
story because I think most people when
they hear this advice and this kind of
topic of okay I I I'm feeling depleted.
I'm feeling burnt out. I feel like most
people jump to okay but I can't actually
do anything about it. I have a job. I
got responsibilities. What what I'm
getting from this is there's actually
the most important step is jump to
figure out what you actually should be
doing. What gives you energy? What your
gifts are. It feels like that's the
biggest gap for people because once you
know that there are ways to do that.
Talk to your manager. Hey, uh, here's
something I like may not be possible
today, but here's where I want to be
going. Here's what I want to be spending
time on. I love your point you made
though about you actually have to be
doing well for your manager to listen
to. You can't just be like sucking and
then like, uh, but I want to work on
strategy.
>> Yeah. Well, the it's it's no one else's
job to help you live in your gifts. And
what I noticed in big companies is
people are often annoyed or frustrated
with their management for not making
their job more interesting. It's like,
no, your manager's job is to help you
perform in the job you were hired to do.
It's your job to navigate your career.
So, over the arc of your career, how do
you match your gifts with the world's
needs? And if it's that, if the world
right now is your company, how do you
understand the needs enough so that you
can apply your strengths to those needs?
>> This reminds me, there's a couple guests
I've had on the podcast who did this.
They're both founders. So, it's, you
know, this is specific to founders, but
Rahul Vora at Superhum, he realized he's
just not uh he's not like the best uh
executor in the uh operations person.
So, he hired a president that took all
that off his plate.
>> And then, uh Dash, co-founder of
HubSpot, he knew from the beginning he
didn't want to manage people. So, he
made a rule with his co-founder, I will
never have reports.
>> Yeah.
>> And he's the CTO, I believe, and has
zero reports, has no one-on ones.
>> Yeah. And I think that it's a beautiful
thing to recognize that, but then to
actually address the needs of those
reports also. I think often people know
gh I don't want to have anyone once, but
just not having anyone manage those
people is not going to be healthy for
your company. So you have to both take
your strength seriously and actively
manage around your weaknesses.
>> Is there any maybe last piece of advice
on this topic of helping people get to a
place where they're feeling much less
depleted and just more energized at
work? I would start small. You don't
have to leave your job and redesign your
life. You can stop going to the optional
things that are exhausting. You can
leave space between the things that are
depleting that you have to go to to go
outside and go on a 30-minute walk and
re, you know, refuel your tank. Start
with tomorrow. What are the three things
you're going to do to like plug up that
gas leak and re-energize your spark? It
might even be you love to read and
you're going to start reading 30 minutes
before you go to sleep every night. It
doesn't have to be a dramatic life
change, but recognize that only you know
what is resonant and what is depleting
and it's your job to take that seriously
if you want to show up purposeful and
impactful in the world.
>> I love that advice. I've actually
started reading before bed uh for 30
minutes and that's been so joyful. Like
a physical book with a little
nightlight.
>> I agree. I love I love a physical book.
I have a Kindle. I got all the things,
but a physical book on the couch is the
best.
>> Yeah. It's just the nightlight is key
cuz some you know at night time it's
like
>> you need a light. Okay. So, we've been
talking mostly right so far about kind
of individual improvement, how to figure
out what you should be working on, just
uh helping co learning to coach, things
like that. I want to kind of take us up
a little a level above and talk about
team skills,
help people get better at working with
other people. Something that you're uh
in many ways known for is helping
co-founders build better relationships.
And in my experience, this is one of the
most challenging parts of starting a
company is the co-founder relationship.
You A lot of people don't realize what
they're getting into. You're basically
getting married to this person in like a
very high stress situation and you
sometimes don't know much about them.
>> Exactly.
>> And then you not working well together
is just a huge issue because that all
trickles down and everyone sees it and
>> and you know when co-founders leave it's
really bad for everyone. So let me just
ask you this. What have you found most
helpful in helping co-founders build
great relationships, stay happy and
productive? Yeah, thanks for asking
this. I love working with co-founders
because I think your core values as a
person come out when they interact with
someone else's core values. Conflict,
healthy conflict or otherwise, is
actually where your core values come
out. So, it's fascinating to watch
people try to do something incredibly
hard in the context of someone else's
vision, someone else's strengths and
weaknesses, and navigate that together.
So, there's so much energy in the
co-founder dynamic for me and for
co-founders themselves. It's actually
something that people don't feel
comfortable going to their board about
or talking to that many people about
because it's a private matter. It's
almost like in a marriage, you go see a
couple's therapist, but you don't tell
all your friends that you can't stand
your partner, but it keeps you up at
night. So, it's a really tender,
important relationship, and there aren't
enough supports for co-founders to
navigate it. It's very normal. In fact,
I know you probably know this stat. 65%
of startups fail because of co-founder
conflict. And co-founders
are in a moment where they're trying to
build the future for their business, but
also trying to build their own
livelihood. So, there's so much at stake
to get along with your co-founder.
And I think the the core at its core,
what you need in a healthy relationship
is one self-awareness. What do I bring
into this dynamic? And how am I being
experienced by the other person? What
does this other person bring into the
dynamic? And how am I reacting to that?
So the first is just collective
awareness about what is our dynamic. I
like to use the enog for this. Um but
there's all kinds of tools,
self-awareness tools that you can use to
give a common language to what is my
thing and what is your thing. A very
classic one has to do with roles. CTOs
tend to be skeptics. They're they love
facts. They seek knowledge. They want
depth of awareness and understanding.
And they also like to be
self-sufficient. This is a total
generalization, but I've seen this
pattern over and over again. The CEO is
the person who had to sell the vision.
They're a person who loves big picture
vision strategy. They often are great at
influencing others. They love to sell
ahead of the the reality of what the
company's actually built. This creates
an inherent tension between blind
optimism and skepticism. And it's a
dance that these two roles play
together. So the first part is knowing
the dance you're in. So you're not just
stepping on each other's toes blindly.
The second step is actually being
conscious about the commitment you're
making to your relationship. So in a
marriage for example people you know I I
I talk about co-founder vows and
recommmitments and renewals because in a
marriage you get married and a lot of
times people build a family and then
they think oh the relationship will just
continue because we're around each other
all the time. We're doing this thing
together.
But just like couples need a date night
co-founders need time and space to
connect with each other to come together
and say how's this working for you? Are
we still aligned on our vision and our
strategy? How are we working together?
What am I doing that's pissing you off?
What are the things that have gone
unsaid and that we need to talk about?
But if you're just in the hustle and
bustle of running and scaling your
startup, you don't make time for that
conversation. So, I think it's
incredibly important for co-founders to
make space for their relationship.
Whether that's a dinner every other
week, whether that's going out to lunch
regularly, whether that's um just
touching base business-wise, but having
an in-person quarterly check-in,
that space is critical for the health of
a co-founder relationship.
>> On that second piece, the vows idea is
such a good idea. Is that something you
actually recommend? Like here's what I
vow to do.
>> Yeah, here's what I commit to do. So, I
have um recently I actually wrote an
article with First Round and we created
a document to help co-founders think
about what to integrate into their
check-in. So, we put out weekly
check-in, monthly check-in, and annual
and just questions to sit down and ask
each other. Active listening skills will
come in handy in those conversations.
But it's about taking space out of
hustling and running the business to
think about the business from a kind of
rather I I like to say instead of being
on the dance floor, you need time on the
balcony to look down at what's
happening. How are we doing? Is this
still working for both of us? And the
vows are really about how are we going
to be together? How are we going to show
up? Like what's our culture that we're
creating? Even if you don't want to go
through a whole culture exercise early
on in building your company, you should
have some sense of how you want to show
up for each other. How are we going to
make decisions?
How are we going to deal with conflict?
These are things you can go to in go
into intentionally and design with your
co-founder.
>> Awesome. We're going to link to that
post. The first step uh anagram sounds
like that's what you recommend and this
is basically a personality profile that
uh a lot of people love. I really like
the anagram. I think you can also simply
tell each other here are my strengths.
Here's what I see as my weaknesses and
what do you think? Give me some
feedback. Do you agree? And you can do
that with each other without any
personality assessment. If you want to
just be scrappy and have an open
connected conversation about
the you could even say what are the
gifts I bring and the weaknesses I have
and how will I cover those? How will I
lean into my gifts? How will I cover my
weaknesses? and how will you and then I
think it's worthwhile having a
conversation about what are the gaps
neither of us cover that we're likely
going to need as we build this business.
What do you recommend people do when
they are just like our relationship
isn't working grades? Like there's a lot
of tension. All this advice we've been
talk talking about is like at the
beginning here's things you can do to
set things up for success. Understand
what you're good at, what you're
bringing to the table. Consciously
commit to here's what I'm going to do.
Here's what you're going to do. Have
these dinners or lunches. I love this
metaphor of going out on the balcony and
just reflecting on how is it how it's
going. So that's all really great. What
if you're just already in it and just
like this is really annoying and I don't
like this person that much or so much
tension constantly. What what are a
couple things they can do this week,
next week?
>> Co-founders typically come to me either
in this early phase where they're they
want to intentionally build something
great and they want to set it up for
success.
More often co-founders come when they're
really frustrated with one another. They
feel the tension is palpable. They can't
stand it anymore, but they're still
really deeply committed to the business.
So, they don't see an out. And they knew
that at some point they really loved
this co-founder. So, they see a
possibility of recovering. And that's
why they want to go get a coach. I'm
going to give you an example of uh this
PR duo running a fierce business,
scaling really fast. And at one point
when they started, you had the visionary
who was great at selling business. Um
they were both incredible with PR and
the partner was incredible
operationally. So as the business
scaled, one took on a lot more business
development and the other took on all
the internal things but was exhausted by
all this people management and all of
the um elements of kind of running a
scaled team that she didn't expect to
have to do. And when they came, I think
both of them weren't sure, can we figure
this out? Do we want to just sell this
thing? Do we want to keep going? And
I think someone said, "End it or send
it?" Was what one co-founder said to me.
You know, they're coming at this this
this decision point. And what I saw them
do is one, they named current state
really well. They were both able to
share. We we did use a 360. So they got
feedback from their teams and then
shared it with one another, but they
were able to be open and vulnerable in
what was working and what wasn't
working. Not immediately, but over time.
And they realized they used to love
being partners in this work, but as they
began to lead different teams, they grew
very distant from one another. They were
living on opposite sides of the country
and actually just coming together and
realizing what each other was missing
and how lonely it is to lead this
scaling company without each other's
support and how they actually needed the
counterbalance to their strengths and
didn't have it
was a important start to their healing.
And over our coaching, they turned back
towards each other and they created more
of a rhythm of how they would get
together without me involved.
And they they ended coaching after our
arc feeling renewed and really
recommitted. They made some changes on
their leadership team to fill their
gaps. They also
started, I think, meeting once a week
virtually and they started a cadence of
getting together in person quarterly.
And I don't mean to say that just that
time means you're going to heal.
Sometimes coming together and really
grappling. I had one last week where we
all came together. We had a great full
day in-person discussion about how they
were making this co-founder duo, how
they were making decisions.
And after that conversation,
it was really clear that that one of the
co-founders was unhappy and and didn't
appreciate the other one and was not
going to change and realized he was a
big part of the problem and I think is
going to leave the business. But that's
still success because it's clarity.
You're not muddling in the dark,
frustrated, unconscious about the
interpersonal dynamics you're in. You're
making a choice based on your strengths
and what the business needs and this
relationship dynamic that you're in to
either be in it or to lovingly step out
of it.
>> I love how similar this is to just a
marriage. All the stuff you're like this
is the same sort of thing you do.
>> Totally. I mean a marriage you're
building a life with a partner. So the
only difference is a marriage is rooted
in sexual attraction and love. And
that's not the case always in the
co-founder dynamic. But I have I have
worked with couples who are also
co-founders. But there should be some
element of love for your co-founder. In
fact, I think that when you work closely
with colleagues and you really are able
to see their gifts and enable them, you
can't help but love them.
>> That's a big statement.
The other takeaway here is that just get
coaching. It feels like that's the
solution if things are just not working
great. like there's only so far you can
get just talking.
>> It it takes an evolved facilitator like
one of the co-founders being able to
hold space for both their frustration
and their empathy
in a dynamic that is challenging. So
outside support is useful. Sometimes
it's actually a team member. It's an HR
leader. It's the GC who happens to have
great people skills. You don't always
need a coach, but you need space to be
vulnerable, open, and curious. So, if
you can create that on your own, that's
great. I think it's definitely possible.
>> Outside of the co-founder relationship,
do you have any just tactical tips for
people to improve their interpersonal
interpersonal skills with just team
members, anyone they work with, just
people that may struggle like, man, I
have a hard time with this person. I
just have a hard time with a lot of
people. First of all, people when they
want to have a conflict or they want to
engage in something that's not working,
they come in armored and ready to prove
their point. It's natural. You've been
thinking about this, proverating over
whether you should mention it. You
finally get to the point of engaging
and often there's a misguided view that
the goal is to convince the other person
that what they're doing is wrong.
Actually, the goal of any conflict is to
create mutual understanding.
So, when I go in to have a conversation
with, let's say, my husband who's not
doing his share of the parenting,
my goal is to help him understand what
I'm struggling with
so that he can empathize,
see clearly what's happening, and
perhaps meet my needs in some way.
But it's not for me to prove to him how
little he's doing in the house because
he might have a totally different story
about what's happening. So I'm going to
give you a framework that I like that
many of my clients use. It's from
Marshall Rosenberg's non-violent
communication has a book and a
framework. So it's four steps. The first
step is observations.
So my job is to note what is happening
factually.
For example, I noticed that in the last
three sprint planning meetings, you
didn't show me what you were you didn't
invite me to those conversations or
share with me the road map. That's an
observation. It's a fact. I could take a
picture of it and no one would argue
with it.
The next step is feelings. So I'm going
to express my feelings without blame.
So, I felt anxious not knowing what was
on the road map for the week. I felt
confused about whether that meeting
happened or not because I wasn't
included. So, this is me sharing my
feelings so the other party can
empathize and understand what I'm going
through without being defensive.
The third step is needs. What are my
universal human needs related to this
topic? We all have needs. This is not
requiring anything of the other person
just helping them understand my needs
that are not met. So I have a need for
clarity. I have a need for
collaboration. I have a need for
connection. Whatever that is. And lastly
the step is to make a request. Now in
this model the request is an olive
branch to help the other person meet you
and see you. It shouldn't be something
that's impossible to do. It should be
actually something quite small and easy
to achieve for the other person to feel
successful in connecting to you and
understanding you. So in this case, I
might make a request, I'd like to ask
you next time you have a sprint planning
meeting to include me as optional or to
send me the road map afterwards that you
align on.
Now the other person doesn't have to
meet my request. They might make a
counter proposal, but the most important
thing of this model and this
conversation is that the other person
understands what I'm going through and
they don't feel reactive so that we can
have a mutual conversation about what's
going on.
>> Wow. This point about how when you're
trying to
com when you're trying to convince
someone of something, when something is
going wrong, this point that your goal
is not to convince them, that your goal
is to have mutual understanding. That
just blew my mind.
>> I think this it's going to change my
life.
>> Wow.
>> Lenny, try this with your wife tonight.
NBC is a powerful tool and actually it's
very akin to most models that are about
connection.
Um the Stamford Business School course
that has a te it's called Touchyfey that
everybody loves.
>> We've got Carol on the podcast.
>> Great. Yeah. So Carol Robbins created
this movement, right? There's lit. A lot
of founders go to her model that's for
founders. back. Yep.
>> And this is all about they talk about a
net that you can talk about your
feelings and your reaction, but as soon
as you cross the net to blaming someone
else or making an assumption, they're
going to have a defensive response, but
you can be incredibly bold and brave if
you stay on your side of the net. So,
this model helps you do that because
it's really about sharing your emotions
and your needs and making a request
without blame.
>> Yeah. So, what I was going to say as you
were going through this framework is
it's all it's here's me. Here's what I
saw. Here's what I'm feeling. Here's
what I need. And then here now that you
have that in context, here's something
I'm asking for versus you did this and
you're feeling this and you thought
this.
>> Exactly. It also acknowledges that
professionals have feelings. I think
that we operate in tech like we're
supposed to give all of ourselves, all
of our time, all of our energy to this
endeavor and it's purely logical. That's
not at all true. It's completely
emotional. And if we ignore our
feelings, they will bubble up and we
will be unconsciously acting from them.
>> And there's kind of this implicit power
here that if the person cares about you
and loves you or values your
relationship, knowing that this makes
them feel bad will make them want to
change. It's not like you need to tell
them change this thing. It's, oh, I
didn't realize this made you upset or
that you have this need. And now that I
know that, okay, now I see why this is
important to you.
>> That's exactly right. And sometimes the
other person will will hear that and
have a a different story or different
perspective. Right. So they might say,
okay, I can honor that request or I hear
that request and I hear your feelings,
but let me explain what happened for me.
And one way you could do that is are you
open to hearing that? So they're able to
share their side, too. You don't have to
just agree with the person's request. As
long as you're setting this tone, the
other person's more likely to contribute
in a way that achieves mutual
understanding because they're going to
share once you're vulnerable, they're
going to share their vulnerability.
>> Let me uh remind folks of the framework.
I'm going to try using this. I wish it
was a handy acronym offer.
>> Offner.
>> So the framework is share what you've
observed, just the facts of what is
happening. Just simply here's I saw you
didn't close the fridge fully.
>> Mhm.
>> Your feelings of how that made you feel
the needs that your core human need that
uh drives that feeling I imagine and
then the request you have of the person.
>> Yes. And I want to make one note I
forgot to say which is feelings are
emotions. So sometimes people say things
like I feel like you're being a jerk.
That's not a feeling. Obviously, an a a
feeling is a sensation in your body that
results in an emotion. So, naming a
feeling is actually not easy for
technical leaders sometimes. I want to
make that point because emotions are
what get you to the underlying humanity
of connection. Emotions are the key to
soliciting empathy. Are there they're
there like phrases that are just
examples of non-feings? Like like like
using the word you in the way you
describe a feeling probably is not a
good not a good sign.
>> Exactly. If you can say like I feel like
even if you add like or I feel that
you're probably going to add a fact. It
should be an emotion word after I feel.
>> So don't say like don't say you don't
say that.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Awesome. sort of along along this topic.
I I chatted with a number of clients
that have worked with you over the years
and one of the most common themes that
they said you helped them with is having
difficult conversations.
And I think we covered actually much of
this in what we just talked about, but
I'm curious if there's any other advice
you have for helping people have
difficult conversations. Let me read a
quote from one of your clients about
this. So she said, uh, Rachel is
exceptional at making difficult
decisions clear and making it feel
possible to get these decisions
actualized.
>> Is there anything more there for?
Because difficult conversations are
difficult. How do we help people make
them less difficult? Any tips?
>> Yeah. Well, first of all,
difficult conversations makes you want
to run away. The marketing on conflict
is poor. So I want to reframe that.
My belief is when we feel internally
ambivalent, we have two inner parts at
war. And there's something really
beautiful and important to pay attention
to. There's something to learn when we
have ambivalence.
When we are in conflict,
something important is at stake. We care
deeply about what we're building, about
the person that's letting us down. So
the reason it's hard is because there's
such an emotional component to it and
there's something to learn from it. So
first I want leaders who are listening
to think this is hard because I have
something to learn here and because it
matters. So instead of avoiding it and
running away, I'm going to lean into
this moment and I'm going to come out of
it not just having solved this dynamic
and not just having said my piece but
having built a skill.
The reason I focus on interpersonal
dynamics is because the quality of our
relationships determines the quality of
our life. I really believe that. And if
you cannot have conflict, you can't have
healthy relationships. We are going to
disagree with the people we love or care
about or are building a business with.
So, first I just want listeners to
reframe ambivalence and interpersonal
challenge
to
um think of them as a growth
opportunity.
Second,
there is always something that we're
doing to contribute to the conflict.
even if it feels like the other person's
insane and is driving us crazy and we're
the innocent party.
So, entering any conflict conversation
with humility and curiosity about the
other person's experience is critical to
setting the table for
a commitment to come out better and
stronger. So no mo no model NVC or
otherwise can fix a person who's coming
in rigid and full of blame.
I really love the um the 15 commitments
to conscious leaders. I don't know if
you know that book, but one of the
concepts is about taking 100%
responsibility,
not being in the world of blame, being a
victim or being a hero.
And I see many leaders when they're in a
challenging interpersonal conflict,
being in victimhood,
being in blame, or being in hero. I'm
just going to do it for them and forget
it. You know, they're so they're having
such a hard time getting this done. I'm
just going to do it. Instead, take
responsibility for your part. What is my
piece in making this dynamic happen? And
how can I address it? That makes me
think about uh Jerry Colona was on the
podcast and he has this famous line that
I've always remembered. How are you
complicit in the creating the conditions
that you claim you don't want?
>> Yes. I love that. Love that question.
>> And there's so many like there's three
parts to that whole question. I won't
get into it, but uh what you're sharing
here is think about that. Figure out how
because your point is you're always
somehow complicit in creating the issue
you're complaining about and use that to
help kind of put down the defense of the
person. like here's what I've here's
what I've contributed to this problem.
Do you use the non-violent communication
framework? And I don't know, is that
just a general way of trying to have
difficult conversations or is there not
a framework?
>> Yeah. No, I think that's a great
framework for when you want to go
interact with someone around something
that's not working for you. Like I think
typically a difficult conversation
arises because some feelings are coming
up for you and you have a need that's
not being met.
>> And so that's the instigator to know,
okay, I need to talk to this person. We
need to clear this up. For example, I
was working with a CEO whose co-founder
was constantly undercutting his
decisions and criticizing him. And there
was something happening where they'd
gone from being this great dynamic duo,
fundraised, hired a few leaders, and
then all of a sudden he was getting kind
of daggers thrown at him all the time,
and it was exhausting and frustrating
and confusing. So that was a time where
he used NBC to address what is happening
here. And it turned out that the
co-founder was really frustrated with
how he was spending his time. He didn't
want him to be off selling. He wanted
him to be helping him with product
vision and they had a totally different
conception of how the CEO should be
spending his time.
>> Awesome. Just remind folks of the NVC
framework because this is the thing
that's hard in the moment like oh what
should I be saying? Uh observe feelings
needs request.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And there's a there's a
nonviolent communication book if folks
are into the framework and want to check
it out.
>> Right. People need a little like who is
it you said when your client's tattooed
there his the vision he had. Okay.
There's let's just get some.
>> Maybe don't tattoo NBC. It doesn't have
good acronym. You know they just print
it out and put it right next to your
screen or something.
>> All right. All right. No tattoos.
>> Uh I just want to highlight the first
point you made in this answer of having
difficult conversations and then I have
one more question for you. Yeah. Just
this point about if there's something
you're afraid of that is a sign you
should do that. There's a quote I often
think of the cave you fear contains the
treasure you seek.
>> And it's almost and the advice there is
just the thing you're afraid of is a
compass to the thing you should do
because there's something important
there.
>> Yeah. It's like what's important here?
What do I have to learn here is a
question you can ask yourself when
you're avoiding something. I often see
this in talent management situations. A
CEO has an underperforming COO.
They're avoiding a conversation because
they keep getting let down. And
actually, they kind of know deep down
this is not working out. They don't want
to face it. It's too much work. They
need to just keep plowing forward. And
when we really take space to think about
their feelings and needs,
they realize I asked them, would you
enthusiastically rehire this person for
the same role? Which is the question we
always asked at Stripe? And when the
answer is no to that, no matter how many
difficult conversations you have, this
is not going to work. So then you have
to take action. And even engaging in the
hard conversation and seeing what
happens can lead you to the clarity that
you need to take action on talent that's
not working.
>> That is a really cool tip. I did not
know Stripe operated that way. We had
the CTO of Netflix on the podcast,
Elizabeth Stone, and this is very much
how they operate. They're always asking
a question like that. Uh the way you
phrased it was, "Would I
enthusiastically rehire this person for
the same role?"
>> Exactly. It's very clarifying because
it's binary. People have a physical
sense just like we talked about a full
body yes before. You have a immediate
reaction that is honest to that question
that provides clarity
>> and the answer isn't if it's no, it's
not fire them. It's you need to do
something about it. It could be talk to
them about it. Put them on a performance
plan. Put them in a different role.
Right. It doesn't mean like you have to
fire them immediately. So it's not
necessarily as scary as it sounds if you
say no.
>> Yeah. I think that also it depends on
the stage of business you're in. So I
see a lot of companies build a
leadership team and then a year later
the the size and stage of their business
is dramatically different and they start
to realize, oh the CFO that was really
fine back then is now completely wrong.
He should be the controller. Okay,
great. So reckon with that like
recognize that in how you're interacting
with your current CFO. Put out a search.
Like there's many things you can do that
aren't firing someone, but in quickly
scaling businesses, it's natural that
the leadership team's job will change
and that you'll have to make some
evolution over time.
>> And I guess it's very important to
highlight the importance of operating
this way. If you're trying to build a
really successful company is that should
be the bar is if you would not
enthusiastically rehire this person for
this role. If you're trying to build
something that's never been built before
and build build a company that actually
works out really well, you need to
really only hire people around that are
hitting that bar.
>> Yeah. My perspective, you know, I talked
at the beginning about how I'm obsessed
with the human side of business
building. And my belief is that talent
and the environment that you put your
talent in is everything. Yes. Building a
product in a business is about building
something that users need. It's about
product market fit and then the wave
you're on. Timing is important, right?
You're going to build a different size
business if you're in a sector that's
not growing than right now if you're in
the middle of AI. True, you're writing a
a timing wave and you're solving a core
need, but everything besides that is so
human. It it's about talent and it's
about the environment that you put that
talent in. So, you need to create the
conditions such that your talent can
thrive. such a a simple concept that I
think people overlook is just everything
you do is going to be the people that
you have around you and the environment
you create for them to operate.
I think your point about uh when you're
doing something difficult just to close
out this element. Uh I love this idea
that if it feels hard think of it as a
learning opportunity. I think anyone
listening to this like oh cool I'm going
to learn something. I'm going to get
better. It's such a easier more
motivating way of approaching something
that's difficult.
>> Yeah. And I want to I want to make a
distinction between that and what we
talked about earlier which was lean into
your strengths
because I don't believe people should
suffer through the day grinding doing
work that's depleting. That's not a
learning opportunity.
Interpersonally
when you're avoiding something it's
because you care about something.
Avoiding your emotions is what I want to
encourage people against. We have to
feel our feelings all the way through.
Be present to our feelings and interact
with others in a way that acknowledges
our feelings. That's what I want to
encourage cuz actually that's not
deadening. That's enlivening. And
there's learning there.
>> A final area I want to spend a little
time on is something that I've heard
from everybody that you work with, which
is the way that you help them operate.
So you just talked about the importance
of the people you hire and how the
environment you create for them. And
something that you help leaders do is
create a very specific way of operating
around a one-page plan and how that kind
of trickles down and just makes
everything at a company more effective.
Talk about this onepage plan, how you
recommend companies operate uh with
this.
>> Yeah, thanks for asking that question. I
think typically companies have
complicated the process of aligning
their vision, their strategy, their
goals and the way people behave with
each other, their values. So that all of
these things live in different places,
are talked about to a different degree,
resonate to employees differently, and
if you asked anyone at the company, what
are your top three priorities and how do
they relate to the vision? It's not an
easy answer.
So, the reason I like the onepage plan
concept is it's simplifying.
It's a way for the leadership team to
come together and align around what are
we doing here? What is our role in it?
And how do we communicate it so that the
whole company has clarity and knows how
the work they're doing ladders up to our
big picture vision that we're all
committed to.
So, I actually got this idea of the
onepage plan from Alpine Investors. They
do a one-page they they have something
called the people first operating rhythm
and they've successfully implemented
that at their portfolio companies and I
work in concert with Alpine. So, I work
with some of their portfolio CEOs to
execute this rhythm. So, it's not just
about a one-page plan. It puts your
vision and your values on the first
column, your strategic intentions and
your KPIs on the second column, your
annual goals on the third, and your
quarterly goals on the fourth. So that
no matter what you're talking about in
terms of what are we doing for the next
year or the next quarter, how do we
prioritize, it's always in tandem with
your core KPIs, your strategy, and your
vision.
And I love how they instituted that with
their portfolio. And I saw the power of
it. They've collected some data that
their portfolio companies that actually
institute the people first operating
rhythm result in higher returns. So
they're very committed to this strategy.
And after operating with CEOs in their
rhythm, I took some of those ideas and
started to help other founders and other
leaders with some of the same concepts
in my own way. We're gonna hopefully
link to a template of this onepage plan.
>> Yeah, sure. Happy to share. Okay, so
let's do that. And then what kind of
impact do you see from companies
starting to operate this way to motivate
people to do this?
>> Yeah. What I see is clarity and
alignment
>> and I also see more connection. So I
want to name that it's not just about
having a plan, it's about how you create
it, how you reflect on it and how you
come together around it to celebrate
wins. So in my opinion, a very
underattended
to part of building a business is an
operating rhythm.
When do you come together to kick off
the year and share your strategy and
vision again and talk about the goals?
When do you come together to reflect on
what's working and not working? And how
do you do that? In what groups? And are
you honest or are you just kind of doing
it as a quick exercise to move on to
what's pressing? So, just like I said in
co-founder dynamics, a key is to step
out of the dance floor and to get onto
the balcony. Executive teams leading a
complex business need time away from
being in the business to work on the
business.
So, around this one-page plan, the
reason I like a rhythm is you can kick
off the year with the plan that's really
simple, easy to understand, everyone can
have it accessible. And every quarter
you can get together to reflect what
worked, what didn't work. I really like
the question, what's an inconvenient
truth?
Air the things that need to be talked
about that no one's talking about
because you're too busy.
That's the power of combining a simple
plan, whether it's one page or not, that
aligns you from the top to the bottom,
your vision all the way down to your
quarterly goals, and a time where you
stop, pause, discuss, reflect, have a
little spacious energy.
It's not unlike what you said about your
own time. You're you are the executive
team. You want a little bit of spacious
time to tinker, reflect,
create, and come back to the meaningful
work you're doing more energized. And
leadership teams need that, too.
>> The way Alpine Investors, Graham Weaver,
he was on the podcast.
>> I saw that. I saw that.
>> I love that. Okay, final final question.
I want to take us to AI corner before we
get to a very exciting lightning round.
Uh I'm going to do kind of a tweaked
version. Usually ask people just how has
AI impacted their work in life. I guess
that is the question here just how has
AI changed I guess coaching as a you
know as a coach but also just uh from a
client's perspective how are people
using AI to help them in their in their
I guess life from a coaching
perspective.
>> Yeah, it's a great question. So as a
coach I use AI in a couple key ways that
I'm grateful for. One, I use granola
which I saw you give away to your
listeners.
>> One free year of granola if become an
annual subscriber of Lenny's newsletter.
Lenny's newsletter.com. There you go. So
I uh I use Granola to take notes in our
session so I can be fully present with
my clients and I can give them a
synthesis of what happened and the next
steps they committed to after our
session.
I also use it I put them in a folder for
every client and so I can look at
insights across our work together. What
are the deeper things that are
happening? What are the patterns that
are taking place? I have these in my
head but actually it's a great tool to
see over time. Oh yeah, we talked about
that in our first session. Let's bring
that back cuz that's what you're
struggling with now. So, it helps me um
create the kind of transformation that I
want for all my clients.
Secondly, I use um I just use chat GPT
to help me plan my retreats. I run a
women's organization and we have eight
retreats a year and it's a great tool to
think expansively about new activities.
Once I've gotten the core objectives
down and I have a bunch of ideas about
what I want to do, it gives me um new
creative ideas. So, I can put in like
here's my objective, here's my goal,
here's my audience, um here's my last
retreat that I ran. I I kind of want
three new ideas for this session. So
it'll give me kind of creative energy
that I otherwise would need to get
together with other coaches to discuss
and I do that too.
Finally, and I'm experimenting with AI
in a in a way to support my clients
between sessions. So I've gotten some
feedback from my clients that they would
like more interaction between our
sessions and they're always allowed to
email me or text me. I'm available to
them. But I think they want to be really
respectful of my time. And so some
people do reach out and ask me questions
and other people wait for our session.
So, I'm curious about the future of
coaching, how in between sessions,
clients can get access to more of an AI
support where they um the bot has all of
their context,
their development plan that we create at
the beginning, their so that's their
goals for our work together, how they
want to grow, some of my core frameworks
and my beliefs and my training and the
the granola notes from all of our
sessions so that so that they can access
between just some extra spot support.
They're going into this conversation.
How should they approach it? They're
anxious about this team meeting. How can
they make the most of it? More tactical
support. I see personal coaching as
still critical for what is your vision
of your life? How do you want to shift
your core behavior to align with that
vision? But that AI can play a real
helpful role in between on the tactics.
>> That is super cool. So that's something
you already do where they have access to
this kind of
>> It's something I'm building right now.
My clients don't have that yet.
>> Okay, that is great. That is a really
good idea. It's not replacing coaching
and therapist, let's say, but it's
adding a lot more in between time where
you could just talk to us based on
everything you've talked about, all the
frameworks that you use. That is
extremely cool. All right. There's a
billion dollar company coming.
>> I don't want to build that.
>> It's not your uh it's not your zone of
genius.
>> Exactly.
Rachel, is there anything else that you
want to share or leave listeners with
before we get to our very exciting
lightning round?
>> What I want to share is that the world
is getting more lonely.
There's a lot of research on this, but
it's also obvious in my coaching
sessions that people feel more alienated
from one another and actually building
businesses is an inherently human
endeavor.
So, I'm a fan of this AI boom. I
appreciate that we have more technology
at our fingertips than ever before.
But I want to encourage listeners to
think of themselves as leaders who bring
humans together to self-actualize
and that they have to actively
overcome
the default state which is blind grind
and loneliness.
So I think this is a call to action for
your listeners to connect with the
people around them, lead healthier
teams, create environments where
connection is inevitable, and that they
will have more fun and build better
businesses because of that.
>> What a beautiful way to end it. With
that, we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready?
>> I am ready.
First question, what are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> One of them I said before, The 15
Commitments of Conscious Leaders,
and I love Designing Your Life by Bill
Bernett.
>> I love that book, too. People don't talk
about that book enough.
>> Uh, next question. Favorite recent movie
or TV show you really enjoyed.
>> Oh, god. I just went to K-pop Demon
Hunters with my daughter. It's so
embarrassing. But that's what we dress
as for Halloween like everyone else in
the world.
>> I have not seen that. I hear everyone
talking about it. I'm going to try to
avoid it, I think. Next question.
Favorite product you have recently
discovered they really love. Could be an
app, could be a gadget, could be
clothes.
>> I really love Loom.
>> I've been recording trainings on Loom
for some of my clients uh that are it's
a scaled holding company. So, I'm able
to scale training in a really human
connected way.
>> Do you have a favorite life motto that
you often come back to in work or in
life? I have a quote that is on my desk
and I love it. Ready? If you can see
your path laid out in front of you step
by step, it's not your path. Your own
path you make with every step you take.
That's why it's your path. That's a
Joseph Campbell quote.
>> Beautiful.
Final question. You've got two kids. You
said, "Do you have any favorite
children's books that you most love
reading to them that they've loved
most?"
>> Oh my gosh. So, my daughter is really
into Rald Doll.
>> I love Rald Doll because he's completely
irreverent and he has a crazy
imagination. So, we've been reading
Witches, Matilda,
all of his books and both my kids love
it. So, they're five and seven.
>> Have you seen the Wes Anderson stories
of his stories where
>> some of them? Yeah, they're great. Yeah,
they're so amazing. Oh my god. And it's
like Rald Doll is like they I think it's
personify him like he's like a character
in the story.
>> Yeah, I mean he's a character from what
I hear about his life.
>> Rachel, this was incredible. I feel like
we've very much accomplished what I set
out to do is just give people all this
advice that they never have access to
that costs tens of thousands of dollars.
Uh I think we're going to help a lot of
people improve their lives and their
careers. Uh thank you so much for being
here.
>> Absolutely. Thanks for having me. Uh, I
almost forgot to ask you two final
questions. Where can folks find you? If
they want to reach out, maybe consider
working with you. Uh, and how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> Yeah, find me at lockcoaching.com.
And how can listeners be useful?
Listeners should turn towards each
other, build great relationships, and
send CEOs and co-founders my way if they
need coaching.
>> Thank you so much for being here.
>> Thanks for having me. Take care, Lenny.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.